feat(tutorials): add "Setup a Nomad cluster on Scaleway" (#1416)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/setup-nomad-cluster/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Setup a Nomad cluster on Scaleway

>   description: This tutorial will guide you you through deploying a Nomad cluster with access control lists (ACLs) on Scaleway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: This tutorial will guide you through deploying a Nomad cluster with access control lists (ACLs) on Scaleway.
```

content:
  h1: Setup a Nomad cluster on Scaleway

>   paragraph: This tutorial will guide you you through deploying a Nomad cluster with [access control lists (ACLs)](https://developer.hashicorp.com/nomad/tutorials/access-control/access-control) on Scaleway.

Reviewer: I don't think we can use Markdown here...

```suggestion
  paragraph: This tutorial will guide you through deploying a Nomad cluster with access control lists (ACLs) on Scaleway.
```

```

Go to the `learn-nomad-cluster-setup/scaleway` directory to continue with the tutorial:

```shell
cd learn-nomad-cluster-setup/scaleway
```

### Files and directories

In the `scaleway` directory, you will find the following files:

- `image.pkr.hcl` - The Packer configuration file used to build the Nomad instance image.
- `main.tf` - The Terraform configuration file used to deploy the Nomad cluster.
- `variables.tf` - The Terraform variables file used to configure the Nomad cluster.
- `post-setup.sh` - The script used to bootstrap the Nomad cluster.
- `variables.hcl.example` - An example variables file used to configure the Nomad cluster.

We will be using the `variables.hcl.example` file to configure the Nomad cluster. Copy the example file to a new file called `variables.hcl` using the following command:

```shell
cp variables.hcl.example variables.hcl
```

---

## Configure the Nomad token

Open the `variables.hcl` file in your favorite text editor and update the following variables:

- `nomad_consul_token_id` - The Consul token ID used to bootstrap the Nomad cluster.
- `nomad_consul_token_secret` - The Consul token secret used to bootstrap the Nomad cluster.

> These variables needs to be uuids. You can generate a uuid using uuidgen:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These variables need to be UUIDs. You can generate an UUID using `uuidgen`:
```

```shell
uuidgen | tr "[:upper:]" "[:lower:]"
```

Or using Terraform console's `uuid()` function:

```shell
terraform console
> uuid()
"4fda5224-6d40-20dd-5dd4-4ce95c1026fb"
> uuid()
"46c99dc9-3536-9a30-8175-92f0b220f688"
```

We will configure the `instance_image` variable in the next step. You can uncomment and configure the rest of the variables as you wish or leave them as they are.

---

## Build the Nomad instance image

> Build the Nomad instance image using Packer using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build the Nomad instance image using Packer by running the following command:
```

zone = "fr-par-1"

# Terraform variables (all are required)
nomad_consul_token_id     = "4fda5224-6d40-20dd-5dd4-4ce95c1026fb"
nomad_consul_token_secret = "6ae9f6f7-b6f1-4d3a-ea82-bcbea392daa0"
instance_image            = "hashistack-20230310141424"

# The project ID will default to the value of the
# SCW_DEFAULT_PROJECT_ID environment variable or the
# default project ID configured with the Scaleway CLI
# project_id                    = "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000"

# The retry join allows Consul to automatically
# discover other nodes in the cluster. An IAM key will
# be created in Terraform and appended to the retry_join
# variable
# retry_join                    = "provider=scaleway tag_name=consul-auto-join"

# These variables will default to the values shown
# and do not need to be updated unless you want to
# change them
# allowlist_ip                  = "0.0.0.0/0"
# name                          = "nomad"
# server_instance_type          = "PLAY2-NANO"
# server_count                  = "3"
# server_root_block_device_size = 20
# client_instance_type          = "PLAY2-NANO"
# client_count                  = "3"
```

---

## Deploy the Nomad cluster

> Now that we have built the Nomad instance image and configuring our variables, we can deploy the Nomad cluster using Terraform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have built the Nomad instance image and configured our variables, we can deploy the Nomad cluster using Terraform.
```
